# Jason-Davis-Snake-Game

Greetings to everyone.  My name is Jason Davis, and I am the author of this program.  This program is a Snake Game.  I came up with this idea thinking back to some old cell phones I had in the early 2000's.  One such game I always saw often on there was a Snake Game.  A user would use the numbers or directional arrows on their phone, guide the snake, the snake would eat food until eventually, the snake grew too large, and the snake ate itself!  Eureka, I came up with an idea for a project.  Why not do a reboot?!?!  This project incorporates Visual Studio and is using .Net Framework 4.72 in conjunction with Windows Forms.  To play this game, the user will click on the start button, and use the directional keys on a keyboard.  The snake begins moving on the screen.  The object, simply put, is to eat the randomly displayed food items.  For each item you eat, you will get 1 point.  In conjunction with this, the snake will grow larger and become a bit more difficult to control.  Eventually, the snake will grow TOO large, and well, the snake will die by eating itself.  My best score currently is 30.  Can you beat that?

This project was made as a submission to the Code Kentucky Software Development Pathway 1 session for January 2022.  To be clear, I will list out the various characteristics and features of this program written entirely in C#:

Classes:  This project incorporates a multitude of classes.  In the Circle.cs file, a Circle Class is declared that will be used not only to draw the snake, but the food item as well.  In the Settings.cs, I declare a default width, height, the directions for use in the game, and a default implementation of Settings.  In Form1.cs, there is a class Form1 which inherits from Form.  Within this class, objects are used within the Form1.cs file.  The 3 objects that are used are a Snake object, a food object, and a rand object.  Each of these objects are noted by the keyword new after declaration, and are populated with data, thus this meets the requirement of creating at least one class, then create at least one object of that class and populate that with data.

Create or Call at least 3 Functions or methods, at least one of which must return a value that is used in your application:  In the Form1.cs file is the core of most of the functions and methods.  Some of the first ones you will see initialy are KeyIsDown, KeyIsUp, and StartGame, but there are several others.  As far as a return value used in the application, I created a function at the end called DifferenceInScores.  I return the difference between a Player's current score and the highest score, and use it in the GameOver method by writing it to the console, so this meets a further project requirement in regards to a function returning a value used in the application.

Features:  This program invokes a master loop console application where the user can repeatedly enter commands/perform actions.  The user can press start and play as many times as they want, then click X to exit the executible file. The user can press the Up, Down, Left, or Right arrow keys to move the snake. The master loop generates the snake's body and continues the game while another loop generates the food. The game continues until the snake collides with itself.  Thus, this is a feature implementing a "master loop" console application where the user can repeatedly perform an action, in this case using the arrow keys, and choose to exit by clicking X, or choose to play again by clicking Start. This project also creates an additional class which inherits one or more properties from its parent.  In the Form1.cs file, Form 1 inherits from Form, as previously mentioned. I also create a list in regards to the Snake, populate it with several values because I am keeping track of the growth of the snake, retrieve at least one value of it, and use it.  In the program, I create a Body variable, and every time the Snake eats food, I add an object to the Snake List.  Finally, as a 4th feature, I can calculate and display data based on an external factor.  I can display the score to the player based upon how much food items the player is able to obtain.

In closing, I want people to have fun and enjoy this demo project.  While it is perfect by no means, it is an attempt to showcase some various skills I have picked up in C#.  Special thanks to Code Kentucky and its team for its program and instructional videos and material.  Thank you all.

Jason Davis